July 15, 1863
I just had the strangest encounter outside the county fair. I met someone, a girl. We only spoke for a moment, but her name is Valerie, and she may be the most wonderful girl I have ever met.
1912
Damon has lost his way. Though I have pulled my own life together, he continues to waste his. His bitterness consumes him. He is nothing but blackness and bile.
March 12, 1922
I have blacked out days. I wake up in stranger's blood. Places I don't recognize. With women I don't remember.
I feel alive again. There are no rules here. Nothing matters anymore. Chicago is a place steaming with life and pulsing with people, I have only imagined meeting, drinking with as well as enjoying.
There is a woman who is intriguing. She has ....hair and is ... danger.
April 1922
Lexi found me last night. Dragged me off the train tracks. Thinks she can make me care again.
June 1924
Lexi's driving me crazy. More animal blood. What misery.
1935
Cravings are there, but it's easier. Lexi's onto her next project – getting me to laugh.
2009
For over a century I have lived in secret; hiding in the shadows, alone in the world. Until now. I am a vampire. This is my story... I shouldn't have come home. I know the risk. But I had no choice. I have to know her.
I lost control today. Everything I've kept buried inside came rushing to the surface. I'm simply not able to resist her.
I had a plan. I wanted to change who I was, create a life as someone new, someone without the past. Someone alive............
They follow you. You can't escape them - as much as you want to.
I am awake. For the first time in a long time, I feel completely and undeniably wide awake. I welcome the day. Because I know I will see her again.
There must be a shred of humanity left inside my brother. Somewhere. I keep hoping but how do I make him see it? How do I protect her?
2009 Voice over entries
I thought there was hope. That somewhere deep inside something in Damon was still human. Love. But I was wrong. There is nothing human left in Damon. No good. No kindness. No Love. Only a monster that must be stopped.
The real animal is still out there waiting for me challenging me to fight back to stop him. But how do I fight the monster without becoming one myself?
I did what I had to do to protect Elena. To protect everyone. Yes Damon the headline reads deadly beast captured. All is well in Mystic Falls.
2011
Wallow is self loathing. Better to shut it off. Bury it.
She's been spiraling since her transition and at times I barely recognize her. But now, for the first time in a while, there's hope. Somewhere in the world, there's a cure for vampires. If I can get it, Elena can be human again. I can give her back her life. So, that's what I need to do. No matter what Klaus asks, no matter what lies I have to tell or secrets I have to keep, I'll do it. No matter what it takes.
